# 2.1 Types and methods of data transmission
*Data transmission methods*

---

### Data transmission
- Data transmission can occur over:
  - Very short distances – e.g., from one component of a computer to another.
  - Short distances – e.g., from a computer to a local printer.
  - Long distances – e.g., from one computer to another over a global network.

### Data transmission
- When data is being transmitted, we need to consider three essential factors.

### Simplex transmission
- Data travels in only one direction via a single cable.

### Half-duplex transmission
- Data can travel in both directions via a single cable – but not at the same time.

### Full-duplex transmission
- Data can travel in both directions at the same time using two communication channels.

### Serial vs parallel transmission
- We already know we can transmit data using simplex, half-duplex and full-duplex modes.
- Data can also be sent via serial or parallel transmission.
- These two sets of terms can be used in conjunction with one another – for example:
  - Full-duplex serial transmission
  - Half-duplex parallel transmission

### Serial data transmission
- Individual bits of data are sent one at a time via a single cable.
- 0
- 0
- 0
- 1
- 0
- 1
- 1
- 1

### Parallel data transmission
- Individual bits of data are sent simultaneously via a series of cables.
- 1
- 0
- 0
- 0
- 1
- 0
- 1
- 1

### Serial vs parallel transmission

### Parallel data transmission
- In a parallel situation, separate bits of data may travel at different speeds via the various cables – this can cause the bits to arrive out of sync, a problem we refer to as skew.
- 1
- 0
- 0
- 0
- 1
- 0
- 1
- 1
- That is why parallel cables are only used over very short distances – and another disadvantage against serial cables.

### Data transmission methods
- The direction that data is allowed to travel via a cable can be described in one of three ways:
  - Simplex: One direction.
  - Half-duplex: Both directions, but not at the same time.
  - Full-duplex: Both directions at the same time.
- Along with the direction of data transmission, data can also be sent via serial or parallel transmission.
  - Serial transmission: Data bits are sent one at a time via a single cable.
    - Lower interference than parallel.
    - More reliable over longer distances.
    - Cheaper to set up.
  - Parallel transmission: Several bits of data can be sent simultaneously via a series of cables.
    - More prone to interference.
    - Data may arrive out of order – known as skew.
    - Limited to very short distances.
    - Very fast data transfer.
