# 3.4 Network hardware
*Network interface card (NIC)*

---

### Standalone vs networked
- A computing device that is physically unable to communicate with any other device is known as standalone.

### Standalone vs networked
- As soon as we provide some mechanism for the device to communicate with another device,  whether that be via a wired or wireless solution, we can say the device is networked.

### Network interface card (NIC)
- Every device connecting to a network needs a network interface card (NIC).
- NICs are often also referred to as:
  - Network interface controller
  - Network adapter

### Network interface card (NIC)
- Early NICs were commonly implemented as expansion cards plugged into a slot in a computer’s motherboard.
- Today, the low cost and universal nature of the Ethernet standard means NICs are now built directly into the motherboard.
- Wireless NICs (WNICs) allows a device to connect without cables – they can be:
  - integrated into the device; or
  - plugged in – e.g., a USB dongle.

### Network interface card (NIC)
- A NIC contains a media access control (MAC) address, generated at the manufacturing stage.
- It is possible for a device to have multiple separate connections to a network via NICs.
- Each connection is assigned its own unique MAC address.

### Network interface card (NIC)
- A network interface card (NIC) connects a device to a wired or wireless network.
- A NIC uses a protocol to ensure successful communication.
- A NIC contains a media access control (MAC) address, generated at the manufacturing stage.
