# 4.1 Types of software and interrupts
*Operating systems – Part 2*

---

### User management/security
- User management: Allows multiple users to log into the same computer.
- The operating system will retain settings for each user such as icons, desktop backgrounds, etc.
- Each user may have different access rights to files and programs.
- A client-server network may impose a fixed or roaming profile for a user and manage login requests to the network.

### File management
- Data is stored in files.
- An extension to the filename tells the operating system which application to load the file into.

### File management
- Data is stored in files.
- An extension to the filename tells the operating system which application to load the file into.

### File management
- The operating system presents a logical structure of files in folders and allows the user to rename, delete, copy and move files.

### Operating systems
- User management/security
  - Allowing different users to log into their own account with a username and password.
  - Each account can be granted different levels of access depending on personal needs/security policies.
  - The operating system can log user access, who logs on and off, when and from which device, as well as logging them off after a set length of time.
- File management
  - Create files/folders
  - Delete files/folder
  - Move and organise files/folders
  - Copy files/folders
  - Easily search for files
  - Restore deleted files
  - Resolve file conflicts between users
