# 4.1 Types of software and interrupts
*System software and  application software*

---

### Hardware and software
- Hardware

### Hardware and software

### Hardware and software

### Hardware and software

### System and application software
- Presentation software
- Word processor
- Spreadsheet software
- Web browser
- Instant messenger
- Email client
- Video games
- Multimedia software
- Photo editing
- Video editing
- Windows®
- Linux®
- Apple iOS®
- MacOS®
- Android®
- Antivirus
- Defragmentation
- Backup
- Compression
- Firewall

### What is utility software?
- Keeps your computer safe
- Keeps it running efficiently
- Provides useful tools to manage files and applications

### Types of utility software

### Utility software: File repair
- File repair software attempts to correct issues and restore a file to its original working state.
- Often built into applications, as well as being a separate, dedicated software tool found in most operating systems.

### Utility software: Backup
- Backups can be set up to  be manual, automatic  or scheduled.
- You can perform full backups  or incremental backups.
- You can back up to  different media or an  off-site cloud system.
- Backup software often comes with an operating system but can be purchased separately.

### Utility software: Data compression
- Compression reduces the size of a file so that it takes up less space and downloads faster over the internet.
- 11111111 00000000 11111111 00000000
- Compressed files must  be extracted before they  can be read.
- Depending on the algorithm used, data is either lost, reducing the quality of  an image or audio file  (e.g., JPEG, MP3), or represented in a different  way using binary, retaining  the original data in a new, compressed format (e.g., ZIP).

### Utility software: Defragmentation
- Defragmentation reorganises files on a hard disk, putting fragments of files and free space back together.
- Reduces the movement of the read/write head across the surface of the disk, which speeds up file access.
- Solid-state drives should not be defragmented, as they have no moving parts. It is unnecessary and reduces the drive’s lifespan.

### Utility software: Anti-malware
- Anti-malware software helps keep your computer and files safe from many types of malware including viruses, trojans, worms and spyware
- Most operating systems come with malware protection built in, configured and turned on.
- Like many other forms of utility software, there are companies who specialise in dedicated anti-malware programs.

### System software and application software
- All computer systems are comprised of both hardware and software.
  - Hardware: All physical parts of a computer system and its related devices, both internal and external.
  - Software: General term covering all computer programs.
- Most software falls into two broad categories.
  - System software: Provides the services required by the computer.
  - Application software: Provides the services required by the user.
- System software is broken down into two further categories.
  - Operating system: Allows applications to interface with hardware.
  - Utility software: Helps keep a computing device secure and in good working order.
- Application software covers all other software – e.g., productivity, communication, entertainment, etc.
- Application software runs on the operating system which, in turn, talks to hardware and other applications.
