# 4.2 Types of programming languages, translators and IDEs
*High-level and low-level languages*

---

### The dawn of computer science
- Electronic adding machines.
- Controlled by a web of electrical cables.
- Instructions created using plugboards and wires.
- Took days to program.
- Program often only changes once every few weeks.

### The dawn of computer science
- The dawn of computer science
- Electronic adding machines
- Controlled by a web of electrical cables
- Instructions created by plugboards and wires
- Took days to program
- A later iteration of electronic adding machines involved permanently programming the plugboards with a set of 50 to 100 commonly used instructions. All instructions were entered in sequence, typically written in binary on paper tape.
- However, writing programs as nothing but 0s and 1s was extremely difficult – we clearly needed a new method.

### The dawn of computer science
- Low-level: Assembly
- Electronic adding machines
- Controlled by a web of electrical cables
- Instructions created by plugboards and wires
- Took days to program
- Low-level languages like assembly allowed programmers to express programs using simple commands, which could then be translated into machine code.
- These languages were written for a specific processor and closely mapped to machine architecture.
- ; Accepts a number in register AX;
- ; subtracts 32 if it is in the range 97-122;
- ; otherwise leaves it unchanged.
- SUB32	PROC		; procedure begins here
- CMP	AX,97	; compare AX to 97
- JL	DONE	; if less, jump to DONE
- CMP	AX,122	; compare AX to 122
- JG	DONE	; if greater, jump to DONE
- SUB	AX,32	; subtract 32 from AX
- DONE:	RET		; return to main program
- SUB32	ENDP		; procedure ends here

### The dawn of computer science
- Low-level: Assembly
- Programs written in assembly language are incredibly efficient.
- However, assembly language requires a great deal of intellectual effort to use, as it is difficult to write and understand.

### Short code – the first high-level language
- Short code used statements expressed as mathematic expressions rather than machine instructions. Source code was not compiled but executed via an interpreter every time the program was run.
- Short code allowed for basic arithmetic, branching and calls to library functions.
- However, it ran about 50 times slower than machine code.
- Mathematical expression
- Translated into machine code each time before being executed
- Converted into short code
- X3 =  (  X1 +  Y1 )  /  X1 * Y1
- X3 03 09 X1 07 Y1 02 04 X1   Y1
- 07Y10204X1Y1
- 0000X30309X1
- 01011010 01101011 11010100
- 01011010 00011010 10101110
- 01010000 11010110 01010100
- 01010110 01010001 11110010
- 01010000 01011101 01010110
- 01011001 10101001 10100010
- 01011111 01010001 01000000
- 10101111 10100100 00000001
- a = (b+c)/b*c

### The dawn of computer science
- High-level: Source code
- Two factors led to an explosion in the use of high-level languages:
  - Increased processor speed
  - Increased memory capacity

### The dawn of computer science
- High-level: Source code
- Two factors led to an explosion in the use of high-level languages:
  - Increased processor speed
  - Increased memory capacity
- Most modern programs are written in high-level languages such as:
  - Python
  - C, C++, C#
  - Visual Basic
  - Java
  - Lua
- Assembly languages are now reserved for specialist situations like:
  - Embedded systems
  - Device drivers

### Low-level vs high-level languages
- Low-level languages
- High-level languages

### Low-level vs high-level languages
- Low-level languages
- High-level languages

### High-level and low-level languages
- Machine code
  - Binary representation of instructions in a format that the CPU can decode and execute.
- Low-level languages
  - Written in assembly language.
  - Converted into machine code using a translator called an assembler.
  - Used for embedded systems and device drivers where it is necessary to instruct hardware directly.
  - One instruction translates into one machine code instruction.
  - Code only works with one specific type of processor.
  - Programmers work with memory directly.
  - Code is harder to write and understand.
  - Memory-efficient.
  - Code is quick to execute.

### High-level and low-level languages
- High-level languages
  - Written in languages like Python, C++, Java and Visual Basic.
  - Converted into machine code using a translator called a compiler or interpreter.
  - Makes writing programs easier by utilising commands that are like English.
  - One source code instruction translates to many machine code instructions.
  - Code will run on different types of processors.
  - Programmers can use many different data structures.
  - Code is quicker and easier to understand and write.
  - Less memory-efficient.
  - Code can be slower to execute if it is not optimised.
