# 6.1 Automated systems
*Automated systems – Part 2*

---

### A note about this video
- This video describes the advantages and disadvantages of an automated system for a particular scenario.
- It assumes you have already watched and are comfortable with the content of the previous video, Automated systems – Part 1.

### Advantages and disadvantages of automated scenarios

### Industry: A nuclear power station
- Distributed control system (DCS)
- Control room

### Transport: Intelligent braking systems
- A sensor takes constant readings of a car’s distance to objects ahead of it.
- These analog, real-world values are converted to a format a microprocessor can understand using an analog-to-digital convertor (ADC).
- A microprocessor takes this input and calculates the speed the car is travelling and safe braking distances. If it detects the car is travelling too fast and a collision is likely, it issues commands to brake.
- Digital brake signals are converted into an analog form – these can then be sent to a motor (actuator), which will apply the brake via a digital-to-analog convertor (DAC).
- The brake slows the car down.

### Agriculture: Commercial greenhouse
- Greenhouse environment monitoring system

### Weather: Airport weather station

### Gaming: Responsive controllers
- All the data from the sensors and console results in a more immersive gaming experience:
  - Actuators provide haptic feedback
  - Adaptive triggers provide resistance.
  - Speakers provide audio feedback.
  - Lighting provides further visual feedback.

### Lighting: Home security/atmospheric lighting
- Lighting interface controller
- Actuators

### Science: Chemical process in a controlled laboratory

### Advantages and disadvantages of automated systems

### Automated systems
- Automated systems can be used in many different situations and scenarios.
- They can support partial or full automation using a variety of sensors, microprocessors and actuators/motors.
  - Industry: Automation in factories using robotics and hazardous environments such as power plants.
  - Transport: Self-drive cars, intelligent braking, automatic parking systems, adaptive cruise control.
  - Agriculture: Commercial greenhouses, automated irrigation systems.
  - Weather: Remote weather stations, airport weather stations.
  - Gaming: Various gaming devices for providing an enhanced user experience.
  - Lighting: House security lighting, automatic road lighting, smart ambient and atmospheric lighting.
  - Science: Thousands of applications for automating aspects of scientific research, testing and production.

### Automated systems
- Advantages
  - Operations can be carried out faster than a human operator.
  - Safer because an automated system is more likely to make timely interventions.
  - Allows humans to keep away from hazardous environments.
  - Processes are more likely to run under optimal conditions for longer.
  - Long-term cost savings versus a large human workforce.
  - Efficient use of materials and resources leads to increased productivity.
  - More consistent and repeatable results.
- Disadvantages
  - Initially expensive to set up.
  - Requires significant testing and calibration to ensure it works as intended.
  - Any computerised system is subject to cyber attacks.
  - Requires highly specialised and ongoing maintenance.
  - Only able to respond to specific situations within certain parameters – therefore, not as flexible as trained humans able to use intuition and experience.
  - Can result in significant job losses.
