# 6.2 Robotics
*Robots and robotics*

---

### Artificial intelligence, machine learning and robotics
- There is a lot of hype around the emerging technologies of artificial intelligence and machine learning and what they could mean for the future of robotics and automation.
- However, there is also a lot of confusion surrounding these terms because they are often used interchangeably.
- So, what does each term actually mean, and how do they relate to each other?

### Artificial intelligence
- “For the present purpose, the artificial intelligence problem is taken to be that of making a machine behave in ways that would be called intelligent if a human were so behaving.”
- John McCarthy, American computer scientist who coined the term artificial intelligence in 1956.
- A broad term that describes any machine programmed  to simulate intelligent behaviours.
- "null0" (https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:John_McCarthy_Stanford.jpg) John McCarthy Stanford
- https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/2.0/legalcode

### Machine learning
- “The ability to learn without being explicitly programmed.”
- Arthur Samuel, pioneer in computer gaming and AI who coined the term “machine learning" in 1959.
- Machine learning is a subset of AI – in other words, it is one way to achieve artificial intelligence.
- The science of training a device      or application to perform a           task and improve its         capabilities.
- Xl2085 (https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:This_is_the_photo_of_Arthur_Samuel.jpg), https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/legalcode

### Robotics
- The term robotics often gets thrown around in association with AI – but not all robots are smart.
- What is a robot?
- “A machine that carries out work by itself by following a set of          programmed rules.”

### Robotics
- The term robotics often gets thrown around in association with AI – but not all robots are smart.
- What is a robot?
- “A machine that carries out work by itself by following a set of          programmed rules.”

### Characteristics of a robot
- In very simple terms, you can think of the broad characteristics of all robots as falling into three categories.

### Robots and robotics
- Robotics is a branch of computer science that incorporates the design, construction and operation of robots.
  - Includes factory equipment, domestic robots and drones.
- A robot is a machine that works by itself by following a set of programmed rules.
  - Some robots can be dumb – they simply repeat the same tasks over and over.
  - Some robots exhibit AI/machine learning – they are trained to carry out more complex tasks and adapt.
- Robots share similar characteristics:
  - A mechanical structure or framework
  - Electrical components
  - Programmability
