# 6.2 Robotics
*Roles that robots can perform*

---

### A note about this video
- This video describes the advantages and disadvantages of robots and the roles they can perform.
- It assumes you have already watched and are comfortable with the content of the previous video, Robots and robotics.

### The roles robots can perform
- Robots come in a vast variety of shapes and sizes, from simple factory equipment through to domestic robots and drones.

### Robots in industry
- Robots are used extensively in industry to help automate a wide variety of tasks, from large-scale to incredibly delicate.
- Vehicle bodywork
- Gluing and sealing
- Heavy lifting
- Mechanical cutting, grinding and polishing
- Spray-painting car bodies
- Manufacturing microchips
- Inspection and quality control
- Automated warehouses

### Self-parking cars
- Robots in transport
- Robotics is being used more and more throughout the transport industry, from partially automated parking to fully autonomous cars and trains.
- These systems utilise a wide range of sensors to constantly gather and process data and perform physical actions such as:
  - Changing gear
  - Applying brakes
  - Steering
- We looked at this in more detail back in our videos on automation.
- Adaptive cruise control
- Airplane autopilot and self-landing
- Autonomous trains
- Driverless taxis

### Robots in agriculture

### Robots in medicine
- Technological advances have seen an explosion in the use of robots and robotic systems in medicine and medical research.
- Microbots for targeted therapy
- Streamlining clinical workflows
- Surgical assistance robots
- Disinfecting rooms and operating theatres
- Taking blood samples
- Robotic systems for monitoring patients
- Creating safer working environments
- Prosthetic limbs

### Robots in domestic situations
- Although still relatively limited, robots are starting to make their way into the household, helping to automate manual domestic tasks like vacuuming and providing emotional support in the form of social robots.

### Robots in entertainment

### Advantages and disadvantages of robots and robotic systems

### Roles that robots can perform
- Robots come in a vast variety of shapes and sizes, from simple factory equipment through to domestic robots and drones. They are used extensively in:
  - Industry: Factories, assembly plants, warehouses.
  - Transport: Self-drive cars and trains, airplane autopilot.
  - Agriculture: Cutting, pruning, weeding, seeding, harvesting, picking, fertilising.
  - Medicine: Assisting with surgical procedures, cleaning and disinfecting, robotic prosthetics.
  - Domestic: Cleaning, lawn-mowing, home assistants.
  - Entertainment: Theme parks, concerts, festivals, film industry.

### Roles that robots can perform
- Advantages
  - Robots can work in conditions that may by dangerous for humans.
  - They are well-suited to boring, repetitive tasks, producing consistent results over time.
  - Reduced running costs in terms of heating, lighting, pension, sick/holiday pay.
  - Robots can operate 24/7 without breaks, lunch or sleep, vastly increasing productivity.
  - Improved safety because human error is largely or completely removed.
- Disadvantages
  - Robotic systems are initially very expensive to set up.
  - They have replaced a large number of manual jobs, resulting in unemployment.
  - As with any computer-based technology, there is potential for cyber attacks.
  - Robots tend to not cope as well with unexpected situations that require a degree of human intuition.
