# 7 Algorithm design and problem-solving
*Verification*

---

### Validation vs verification
- Both validation and verification are methods of ensuring that only reasonable and accurate data input to system are accepted. They cover a variety of techniques that attempt to minimise the number of errors caused by inaccurate data.

### Verification: Double entry
- Double entry verification is a process whereby important data has to be entered twice, sometimes by different people.
- The system then compares both entries to check they are the same before accepting the data.
- OUTPUT “Please enter your new password”
- INPUT Password
- OUPUT “Please confirm password”
- INPUT ConfirmPassword
- IF Password = ConfirmPassword
- THEN
- OUTPUT “New password accepted”
- ELSE
- OUTPUT “Invalid – Passwords don’t match”
- ENDIF

### Verification: Screen/visual check
- A screen check or visual check is simply a manual check performed by the user who is entering the data.
- Once data entry is complete, all the data is displayed back to the user, usually with a tick-box or button asking them to verify the data before submission.
- Please verify the data you have entered is correct before clicking submit.
- …
- …
- …
- Edit
- Submit

### Verification
- Verification ensures that data is not changed, either accidentally or on purpose, as it is being entered.
- Double entry verification is a process whereby important data has to be entered twice, sometimes by different people. The system then compares both entries to check they are the same before accepting the data.
- A screen check or visual check is a manual check performed by the user who is entering the data.
