# 7 Algorithm design and problem-solving
*Computer sub-systems*

---

### Computer sub-systems
- Technology has permeated almost all aspects of our everyday life.
- We probably interact with dozens of computer systems during the course of a normal day.
- These systems can range from small and bespoke to large and complex.

### Computer sub-systems
- Almost all computer systems can be broken down into a set of sub-systems.
- Each sub-system can typically be divided into further sub-systems until each sub-system performs a single task or action.

### Computer sub-systems
- Swarm
- UFO
- Take the example of classic shooter Space Invaders.
- Analysis reveals many different sub-systems in the game.
- Aliens collision
- Player collision
- Enemy missiles
- Check win/lose
- Fire missile
- Game over
- Title screen
- Move player
- Move player missile
- Move UFO
- Settings
- Player ship
- Alien missile collision
- Move alien missile
- Aliens fire
- Move aliens
- Missile collision
- UFO collision
- Spawn UFO

### Computer sub-systems
- One way to break the system down into its relevant sub-systems is a structured, top-down approach.

### Computer sub-systems
- Here is a structure diagram.
- This is one just example of applying the analysis and design skill of decomposition to break a problem down into its various sub-problems.

### Computer sub-systems
- Computer systems range from small and simple to large and complex.
- Almost all computer systems can be broken down into sub-systems. These sub-systems can typically be broken down into further sub-systems.
- Eventually, each sub-system performs a single task or action.
