# 7 Algorithm design and problem-solving
*What is an algorithm?*

---

### What is an algorithm?
- People are often worried or even scared by the term algorithm – this is almost always because they simply don’t understand what it means.

### What is an algorithm?
- An algorithm is nothing more than a specific sequence of steps that can be followed to complete a task.

### What is an algorithm?
- An algorithm is nothing more than a specific sequence of steps that can be followed to complete a task.
- Making a sandwich
- White or brown bread?
- Spread?
  - Butter or margarine?
- Sauce?
- Filling
  - Lettuce?
  - Tomatoes?
  - Bacon?
- A computer program is an implementation of an algorithm.
- An algorithm is not a computer program in itself.

### Explaining the purpose of an algorithm
- In the exam, you will need to be able to explain the purpose of a specific algorithm.
- The algorithm might be presented as:
- A flowchart
- Pseudocode

### Explaining the purpose of an algorithm
- //Program to output the largest of the two numbers
- DECLARE number1 : INTEGER
- DECLARE number2 : INTEGER
- INPUT number1
- INPUT number2
- IF number1 > number2
- THEN
- OUTPUT "The largest number is ", number1
- ELSE
- OUTPUT "The largest number is ", number2
- ENDIF
- The pseudocode and flowchart above both represent the same algorithm.
- Implementing this algorithm as a solution will produce a computer program that asks the user to input two numbers and outputs which of the two is larger.

### Algorithms
- What is an algorithm?
  - An algorithm is a specific sequence of steps that can be followed to complete a task.
  - A computer program is an implementation of an algorithm.
  - An algorithm is not a computer program in itself.
