# 9 Databases
*Database introduction*

---

### What is a database?
- Databases are structured, persistent collections of data.
- They allow us to arrange and store data in a series of tables for further querying and manipulation.

### What is a database?

### Flat-file database
- A flat-file database consists of one or more tables.
- ClientsTbl

### Flat-file database
- A flat-file database consists of one or more tables.
- Each table consists of many separate records (rows). Records are identical in structure, though their contents will vary.
- ClientsTbl

### Flat-file database
- A flat-file database consists of one or more tables.
- Each table consists of many separate records (rows). Records are identical in structure, though their contents will vary.
- Each record consists of a number of separate fields (columns).
- ClientsTbl

### Relational database
- A relational database consists of multiple related tables.
- In this example, changing the lecturer code for a course will update the associated field for all students on that course.
- How separate database tables are linked together to create a relational database is beyond the scope of the IGCSE course. We have included it here for awareness, as it is something you are likely to come across should you continue to study computer science.

### Databases
- Each field in a database table has a defined field type – these include:
- Text/alphanumeric
- Character
- Boolean
- Integer
- Real
- Date/time

### Primary keys
- With a database, we should make sure each record within a table is uniquely identifiable.
- Consequently, at least one field in each record should be guaranteed to be unique – this field is known as the primary key.

### Primary keys
- While designing a table, you might discover one of the fields can act as a primary key.
- In other situations, it will be necessary to create an additional field to act as the primary key.

### Databases validation
- When a database table structure is first created, it can be assigned various validation rules.
- Validation rules can be assigned to any field of a table – these include:
- Length check
- Format check
- Range check
- Presence check
- Custom rule such as Apprentice, Expert or Master.
- We discussed various validation methods in detail in the following video:
- 83. CAMBRIDGE IGCSE (0478-0984) 7 Validation

### Single-table databases
- Databases are structured, persistent collections of data.
- Databases come in two forms – single-table, flat file databases and relational databases. You are only  required to know about single-table databases.
- Flat file databases
  - Consist of separate tables.
  - Each table is made up of a number of records.
  - Each record has a number of separate fields.
  - Fields can be one of several basic data types – text/alphanumeric, character, Boolean, integer, real, date/time.
  - Each table in a database should have a primary key. The primary key field must be a field that can uniquely identify each record in the table.
  - Database table fields can be assigned various validation rules – length check, format check, range check, presence check, custom rule, etc.
